---
title: "Sohaken Seminar: Hua Chen (Central China Normal University and Nagoya University)"
date: 2023-12-20T17:01:37+09:00
description: "Wed. 12/20 Hybrid: SentanKen 404N and online (MS Teams)"
draft: false
---

- Speaker:
Hua Chen (Central China Normal University and Nagoya University)
- Date:
Wednesday 12/20 Hybrid: SentanKen 404N and online (MS Teams)
- Title:
Early-Universe Evolution of Combined Dark Energy and Inflationary Model in F(R) Gravity

<!--more-->
Abstract:
F(R) gravity is one of the successful extensions to General Relativity. It contains an additional dynamical scalar degree of freedom, which could be responsible for primordial and late-time accelerations. Starobinsky's $R^2$ model has been proven successful in causing primordial inflation. On the other hand, viable dark energy (DE) models in F(R) gravity generally suffer from a weak curvature singularity, which requires higher curvature corrections, e.g., an $R^2$ term. Therefore, it is intriguing to combine inflation and DE using the same Lagrangian. As a result, the cosmic evolution after inflation, say reheating and radiation-dominated era, would be altered compared with the original $R^2$ inflation and Standard Model of Cosmology. In this talk, I shall first review inflation and DE in the framework of F(R) gravity. Utilizing the fluid approximation, I will introduce how the evolution in the early universe would be influenced (in Einstein frame) and compare the result with chameleon dark energy models in scalar-tensor theories.